Knowledge as the Key to Embodied Artificial Intelligence

What is the goal of AI?
  Embodied agent
    eg 
      Home assistance for the eldery
But intelligence is really really hard, since there are too many things you need to learn.
We need the right knowledge

What do I mean by knowledge?
  Knowledge in human history: cave paintings convey and record the seasonal patterns of prey animals
  As history has gone on, we have developed better ways to record knowledge
  ARPANET and then internet, wikipedia, etc

WHAT IS KNOWLEDGE?
  Not JUST experience/data
  prior to learning (?)
  A concise representation
  core idea: if you have it before learning, you can learn faster.
    e.g., if I know where mammoths are, I can hunt them sooner
          avoid being burned by stove

  Exampels:
    knowledge graphs concept-relation-concept
    Relevant text (eg wikipedia article)
    Large-scale models contain world knowledge from training on internet data

What problems do we need to solve for knowledge- enabled embodied ai

  Category of things I need to hide from the dog, things I need to pack for a trip, etc
  
Part 1: Using knowledge - how to use in different forms in vision and embodied settings

  How do we use knowledge in different ways?
    Two categories:
      How do we use structured knowledge? (eg knowledge graphs)
      How do we use unstructured knowledge (models)

    KRISP: Integrating implicit and symbolic knowledge for open domain knowledge-based VQA
      USE MMBERT with question tokens plus image features
      Use Graph NN (GRCGN) to extract structured knowledge.
        Use the edges of the graph to update the hidden representation at each node. 
        end up with a symbolic representation for every node in the graph, use relevant ones for final prediction
        combining: make predictions based on each and take the max (most confident)
          just lets you let one do the work if symbolic side has more knowledge

       SOTA at the time of publication
       Influentiela in sowing ways to combine graph-structured data 
        useful when knowledge is not encoded in VLM weights
    


Part 2 How do we evaluate use of knowledge in multimodal/embodied settings

  To answer "what is funny about image"
    Need "affordance" knowledge (this is a scale)
    Need physical commonsense (weight puts pressure)
    Need social commonsense (joke)

  YOU CNA"T JUST LOOK AT SINGLE EXAMPLES TO EVALUATE


  Key is to make good datasets
  What datasets do we have for knowledge evaluation? Specifically for mm/embodied?

    OK_VQA outside knowledge visual QA
      Collection process:
        ask crowdworkers to come up with questions that require knowledge to answers (images from ms-coco)
       have turkers answer the question

      Problems:
        "what's in the image" - doesn't require knowledge
        "what's the capital of uk" - doesn't require image
          so manually filtered out images

        A lot of questions had the same answer
          prune

        Some had ambiguougs answers
          remove

      OK_VQA became a standard VML benchmark
        Improved Evaluations lead to improved methodolgoy

    A-OKVQA
      updated version 
      
      added more types of knowledge
      added rationales
      focus on model-in the loop 
      use LM to enforce question diversity
      use a pipeline to eliminate easy questions

Part 3 Acquiring knowledge - is there a way we can think about interactively gathering knowledge from the enternet

  What if the knowledge isn't there? How to get AI systems to interactively acquire knowledge

    "Large Language Models struggle . . . long-tail knowledge"

    An interactive view of knowledge:
      web as an environment
      agent can search, click, scroll, back, (etc)
      observse text, images, html from page

    "Navigating the internet in a text-based environment"
      search is not enough: some questions are still hard for curie

      "LEARNING TO NAVIGATE WIKIPEDIA BY TAKING RANDOM WALKS"

        High knowledge to noise ratio
          high knowledge-to-noise ratio

        Information-seeking agents navigate on the wikipedia graph

        policy for agents to learn information

        pretraining task:
          random navigation just choose a start and target node and pretrain a policy

        policy network for navigation:
          observation - embedded text of current article
          goal: embedded text of target article
          actions: embed text of linked articles
          train decision based embeddings

        Option 2: behavior cloning:
          use random start-end trajectories from start-> target

      Navigation results on small graph
      
        shortest path is slightly better
        90% accurate

      Fine-tuing: embed question as goal embedding and finetune to answer the question
        incredibly large just using pretraining

      Fact Verification task:
        fine tuning on navigation is really effective
        competitive against other methods

      Ashim: how does this compare to RAG:
        Kenneth: you could use this as the Retrieval pipeline

      This approach of nonparametric knowledge is better for e.g. wikipedia updates
        

Part 4 towards Neverending Knowledge Learning    

  embodied agent
  learns over time


  Where do we start?
    rich envirnmonet with a lot to learn
    simpler dynamics than robotics  

  Use web as environment:

  Goal: build a topic-specific wikiL
    need to navigate and use the web to find the information

    WebARENA

  What are some problems left to solve 
    using nowlege, 
    combining LM / other knowledge with non-parametric knowledge e.g. expert knowledge

    what to do if expert knowledge disagrees with parametric knowledge

    how to generate hypothesis about the world to then test?

    knowledge that tchanges over time

    how to make our knowledge
      more correct
      self-consistent
      staying up to date

    how to de evaluate whether the knowledge we've built is good?
      human in the loop, try to put ininfformation we want it to collect

      LLM/VLM aided dataset collection
      datasets for expert knowledge
      recognition and evaluation of Millions of digital concepts



What is the goal of AI
  Embodied agent

  problems to solve:
    how to use knowlege 
    how to evaluate use of knowledge
    how to interactively find information on the interntet



QUESTIONS:
  some cooperation earleir in joint parametric/symbolic (earlier connections)

  how can we make sure a model knows that it doesn't have the knowlege so it knows to look it up instead of just hallucinating
      look it up anyway, even if it does have the einternal knowlaegeded

  